Well come back and this video I'm going to just show you how you can test for the existence of a certain
key or value in a dictionary.
So we've already seen that if we have a dictionary and I'll just paste this in if I try and access something
that is not in the dictionary like a key that doesn't exist like address we get an error.
So there should be a way for us to test if instr. contains a key called the address.
And there is it looks like this in just like we saw with lists so we could say name in list and it would
if it was a list it would return true or false.
If the value of name was in there but in a dictionary it only is testing the keys.
So if I try that over here we have instructor and we know that name is in there.
So name an instructor we get true.
And if I tried for something that isn't in there like phone and instructor it gives false rather than
throwing an error like we had a peer so we could you know write a conditional statement that said if
phone in instructor print phone else print there's no phone number so we can add this logic that will
do one thing if a given key is in there and do another if it doesn't exist versus if we tried to just
do if instructor phone like this threat well I needed to call in.
And then I do.
You know Prince there is a phone key just like this we get an error because it can't find phone anywhere.
So we could replace that with if phone in instructor print.
There is a phone key and we'll actually see a dictionary method that we can use as well to remedy this
problem.
So that's the basics of getting her testing for the existence of keys.
But what about values.
If I tried to do that see you know four is a value.
Python is a value.
If I tried to test if they are in instr. right now by doing for an instructor I get false.
Even though we know that four is a value in instructor but it's only looking in the Keys.
So what do we do.
We test dot values.
So remember that instructor or any dictionary dot values returned the values.
So if we just did that right now instructor values and actually in the next section we'll see exactly
what this data type is that is being returned.
But for now let's just think of it as sort of like a list even though if we if we tested it won't actually
say that it is a list.
But anyway I can do it not values like that and test if 4 is in there so I can say 4 in and start to
adopt values.
And if I test for one of the kids like.
Name name is not in the values it's in the kids.
So you know theoretically.
Well theoretically we could do this test.
And the key is that there's no reason because the default just like this is already looking in the Keys.
OK.
So that's how in works of dictionaries.
If you're looking for a key which a lot of the time is what I'm trying to do.
It's more common to test if something exists has a key you can use in but there's also a shortcut that
will see in just the next video.
When we look at some dictionary methods but you can use an and if you're looking to test for the existence
of a particular value you do in instr. dot values get.